[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: Functional
programming has
gotten more popular on the web
recently with state-driven UI
frameworks like React
encouraging that kind
of programming pattern.
In this mini series, I
want to kickstart you
with short explanations of
the functional array methods
that JavaScript has.
The two most basic and arguably
most important functional array
tools are map and
filter, both of which
are methods on an array
and create new arrays
with specific properties.
Filter applies a function,
also called a predicate,
to each element in the
array and only keeps
the items where the
predicate evaluates to true.
For example, if you have
an array of input fields,
you might want to filter out
all the input fields that don't
have a value typed into them.
Map also applies a function
to each element in the array
and replaces the original
value in the new array
with the return value
of that function.
And that might
sound a bit arcane,
but it is extremely powerful.
So for example, after filtering
down our list of input fields,
we can now stop working
on the enter DOM element
and instead create JSON
objects per element
that contain only the
bits of information
that we actually need--
so for example, the field's
name and the field's value.
So whenever you are
working with collections,
map and filter come
in incredibly handy.
See ya.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Two array methods
down, many more to go.
If you find this
interesting, you
should subscribe to
this channel so we
can send you a notification
when the next episode is out.
But until then, why not
watch some more Supercharged?